is SEO really worth it
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business great show
and to check out my free resources
podcasts giveaways or whenever you're
ready to apply to work with me head over
to
samdunning.org in this episode I will
weigh up a couple different scenarios so
you can decide whether SEO is worth
investing in for your B2B company let's
Dive In
so should your B2B company invest in SEO
I've put together a tree where we can
look at a couple different scenarios so
jumping straight in the first thing you
need to think about is are you in a
market is your business is your offer in
a sector where prospects where customers
are aware of the solution that you
provide and the problem that you fix
this should be something that you know
straight away I.E is this a brand new
offering that no one's ever heard of or
are you in an established sector
providing something that people know
exists I.E is it some kind of variant of
CRM that people of course know about is
it a proposal software tool are you a
web developer or SEO company or B2B
marketing company like ours are you
providing I don't know agricultural
machinery for a certain sub-sector if so
then we can go down the yes route if not
if you're something fresh brand new then
we'll go down the no route which we'll
talk about in a second if you're still
unsure you can always do a Google search
so for example if it's proposal software
tools you could whack that into Google
see the search results if there's a
bunch of companies coming up chances are
it's an established market and people
are aware of the offer you can also use
SEO tools like hrefs or semrush if you
want to search for some of your separate
keywords and get some details behind the
traffic impact of those so let's say
we're in a market that prospects are
aware of our offer they're aware of the
problem we fix or the solution that we
provide
the next thing you want to ask yourself
is
do we actually have the ability to do
SEO in-house so do we have web designers
or developers that could do updates on
page on-site Technical and content
updates to our website do have someone
with SEO expertise that understands
keyword research
content optimization
technical Works link building citation
building strategy and more and do we
have a subject matter expert who can
actually write about various aspects of
our industry about the problems that we
resolve about the questions our
customers have about Solutions we
provide in detail showing eeat something
called experience expertise Authority
trust which is a Google ranking factor
in those pages do we have that resource
in-house if you do then get started with
SEO the sooner you start the sooner you
can see impact I mean typically even if
you've had your website around for a
while you're going to be looking at
three months or so to see SEO impact
typically from my experience but most of
the time you want to go into it with a
six month or so
six month to 12 month mindset
but on the alternative if you go down
the S3 yes we should look at SEO if you
are lacking internal resources if you
don't have that marketing team if you
don't have someone that knows SEO
strategy on page seo off-page seo link
building
content optimization technical build if
you don't have a subject matter expert
who can actually craft the copy
then you might want to look at an agency
or a freelancer bearing in mind a solid
campaign for SEO at a minimum is going
to cost you at least a few grand a month
if you are looking to hire someone with
content expertise web development
expertise link building expertise bear
in mind that is the kind of costings
you've been looking at to do it properly
to do the strategy right and actually
drive results so that's going down the
yes route if we go down the no route
because we're a brand new market we're a
brand new industry people are not aware
of our solution of the problem we fix
then
you probably don't want to do SEO yet
you probably want to start on what I
call a no-brainer Channel where your
ideal client profile is actually already
hanging out so if you're in B2B that
might be on LinkedIn and because people
aren't aware of your offer your solution
the problem you fix you might want to
start posting content to your network
around the property fix around questions
your sales team get asked around your
unique value in the market around your
point of view telling stories weaving in
your offer so that's the organic
LinkedIn side of things you might also
want to do paid LinkedIn so to actually
build demand around your offer so you
can put those organic posts put some
paid spend behind it and get that paid
advertisement all of those showing in
front of your ideal client profile so
you distribute the content from organic
to paid and then once your Market is
actually aware once you can see there's
searches coming on Google there's
traffic for your solution there's
traffic for queries around the property
fix for questions that you address for
the direct offer itself then you can
start thinking of SEO alternatively if
you really really really want to do SEO
then you could look at what we call
Super topper funnel searches and queries
and create content on your website to
address that so that could be questions
you get asked on sales calls that could
be things like how to do something best
ways to do something questions around
the niche questions around the industry
if people are aware of competitors that
kind of stuff so you could do what I
call real early doors SEO and then you
could scale that up and ramp that up
like I say when the market is more aware
of your offer the problems you fix and
the solution itself so those are a few
things to consider on the yes side of
things or the no side of things whether
you should start SEO if you do think
that SEO is not right for you because
you're a new industry other no-brainer
channels here might be things like
YouTube If a lot of your audience goes
to their consume content or Tick Tock or
could be somewhere else you want to work
out where they hang out
a couple of other reasons why not to do
SEO is if you need results super super
fast I.E perhaps you've got investors
breathing down your neck then you might
want to consider something like paid ads
on Google so Google paid search or
perhaps if your audience were more on
social that might be LinkedIn ads or
Facebook ads or similar and also if
you're not prepared to work on your
website if you're not prepared to update
Pages content do technical Works do
content in an ongoing manner then SEO
might not be the best bet for you but I
hope this Roundup gives you some sound
ideas on to whether SEO is going to be
the right option But ultimately when SEO
is done right when it is targeted to
your ideal clients when you do the
research when you know what they're
searching for when they need your offer
now when they have problems you fix when
they're comparing you to Alternatives or
they have questions in your Niche if you
do that right with the right strategy of
research on-page website work off page
work
then not only can you ramp up traffic to
your website but you can increase
inbound leads when your website converts
you can build up your brand reputation
and it will strengthen your other
marketing channels if prospects are
constantly seeing you top of organic
search results for all these things
around your industry
and there you have it I hope you found
this episode of use as always if you did
a quick racing or review on your podcast
channel is appreciated or if you're on
YouTube a subscribe goes a long way and
if you want to check out more of my free
resources or even apply to work with me
head over to samdunning.org